_work/surveymonkey.md, before:

---
title: SurveyMonkey
layout: default
order: 0
---

### 2020 to Present

I joined as a **Senior Frontend Engineer** on the Enteprise team and then moved into an **Engineer Manager** role in 2022, on a small team where I still do daily code contributions. I was promoted to **Engineering Manager** where I lead our Web Experience team. Our mandate is to build tools and technologies to increase the velocity of other teams including common **React** components, advocating for best practices, and helping with larger inter-team projects. Since our team is small, I still spend at least 50% of my time as an individual contributor.

## Projects

### React Components

I lead the initiative to migrate 100% of our common **React** component library to Typescript. This process uncovered a number of bugs and has helped ensure that we are not making unintentional breaking changes going forward. In additional, I used the React Profiler API to generate performance metrics for individual components which allows us to ensure that they remain performant with the addition of new features. As we invest in performance, we can now track and ensure render times for components are improving over time.

### Modernization project

I lead a team to modernize B2B enterprise features on a new web platform based on React / GraphQL. I migrated a substantial portion of our enterprise product over to the new technology stack. This project included lots of mentorship for those around me.

### GraphQL

Re-architected our **GraphQL** layer so that users could query information owned by other users. This was key in order for Admin accounts to be able to view and manager the users on their team. With this in place, I was able to create features such as allowing admins to transfer surveys from one user on their team to another.

### Microservices

Even though my role was strictly a frontend role, I still contributed to **microservices** where needed. The entirety of the GraphQL Schema is defined and maintained by frontend developers at SurveyMonkey. In addition, I contributed to other microservices, for example by adding REST and GraphQL APIs to expose our SOLR search database in a secure way.

### Quotes from Performance Review

> Andrew has been doing some of the best Graph work I've seen in a while​. I have the unique perspective of being able to compare his contributions from a technical and social aspect and he's been killing it on both fronts. And I'm saying this compared to the two dozen graph contributors from the last 3 months, across 8+ teams.
>
> --- GraphQL Lead Architect

> From the beginning of the project, Andrew worked very well on this project by planning and estimating the frontend work. He developed request/approval workflows with no issues and other teams promptly starting using casual user request workflow. In planning and estimation part, Andrew was very organized and made sure to align with requirements, UI and backend designs that allows him to execute the development phase smoothly and be transparent about his progress. At the end of quarter, he delivered a great demo for the parts that he committed to finish. Andrew also collaborated with other teams to make sure everyone is aligning on the dependency components. Thank you Andrew for your great work in Power/Casual seats project. Andrew is one of the key engineers to make this project very smooth.
>
> --- First Manager

> Andrew had recently joined the Web Platform team and apart from on-boarding/ramping up, he implemented a great solution for AuthAPI. The sense of ownership to deliver on this and to ensure Web Platform is setup for success!
>
> --- Second Manager

Commit message:

Add info about manager role

_work/surveymonkey.md, after:

---
title: SurveyMonkey
layout: default
order: 0
---

### 2020 to Present

I joined the Enterprise team as a Senior Frontend Engineer before being promoted to an Engineering Manager role on the Web Experience team in 2021. Our mission is to enhance development velocity and ensure consistency across teams by building shared React components, improving front-end infrastructure, advocating best practices, and supporting large-scale inter-team projects. Additionally, we develop organization-wide features, such as the site header.

## Projects

### Design System Implementation

SurveyMonkey’s design system is built in React, but before my arrival, legacy implementations were still in use. As part of a modernization effort, my team led the adoption of the new system, increasing company-wide usage from 10% to over 50%, benefiting hundreds of developers.

Beyond visual modernization, we also upgraded the underlying technology. I led the 100% migration of our design system component library to TypeScript, which helped uncover bugs and prevent unintentional breaking changes.

To ensure performance, I leveraged the React Profiler API to generate component-level metrics. This enables us to track and improve render times as new features are introduced, ensuring long-term efficiency and scalability.

### Header Navigation Consolidation

We also take on feature development. There were at least 14 different implementations of our site navigation experience across different technologies stacks. This includes features like real-time notifications. Starting with an award-winning hackathon project, I proved that we could consolidate them into a single implementation delivered to many different kids of applications, both legacy and modern. This has allows changes to be deployed to production in days instead of weeks, while also driving modernization and consistency.

Our team also takes on feature development. Previously, our site navigation experience had 14+ different implementations across various tech stacks. It includes features such as real-time notifications. Starting with an award-winning hackathon project, I demonstrated that we could consolidate these into a single, unified implementation that serves both legacy and modern applications. This shift has accelerated deployments from months to days, while also driving modernization and consistency across the organization.

### Enterprise Migration

I lead a team to modernize B2B enterprise features on a new web platform based on React / GraphQL. I migrated a substantial portion of our enterprise product over to the new technology stack. This project included lots of mentorship for those around me.

### GraphQL

Re-architected our **GraphQL** layer so that users could query information owned by other users. This was key in order for Admin accounts to be able to view and manager the users on their team. With this in place, I was able to create features such as allowing admins to transfer surveys from one user on their team to another.

### Microservices

Even though my role was strictly a frontend role, I still contributed to **microservices** where needed. The entirety of the GraphQL Schema is defined and maintained by frontend developers at SurveyMonkey. In addition, I contributed to other microservices, for example by adding REST and GraphQL APIs to expose our SOLR search database in a secure way.

### Quotes from Manager Performance Reviews

> As always, it's fascinating to see the number of technical contributions you make in addition to delivering projects and keeping the team engaged...Congrats on shipping [Project A] and kicking off [Project B]. These projects showcase the kind of work you and your team can do!
>
> --- Manager from role as a Manager

> Andrew is one of the main reasons why I love my job. I feel like he really cares about me and our team and does everything he can to help us succeed and feel engaged and happy at work. I love his enthusiasm for our team's products and his dedication for cultivating a healthy and productive environment built on teamwork and trust. He always has my back if I have a problem (regardless if it's technical or non-technical) and I can always count on him if I need anything. I genuinely enjoy talking to him every day in standup and I consider him to be a valuable manager and mentor.
>
> --- Direct Report

### Quotes from Individual Contributor Performance Reviews

> Andrew has been doing some of the best Graph work I've seen in a while​. I have the unique perspective of being able to compare his contributions from a technical and social aspect and he's been killing it on both fronts. And I'm saying this compared to the two dozen graph contributors from the last 3 months, across 8+ teams.
>
> --- GraphQL Lead Architect

> From the beginning of the project, Andrew worked very well on this project by planning and estimating the frontend work. He developed request/approval workflows with no issues and other teams promptly starting using casual user request workflow. In planning and estimation part, Andrew was very organized and made sure to align with requirements, UI and backend designs that allows him to execute the development phase smoothly and be transparent about his progress. At the end of quarter, he delivered a great demo for the parts that he committed to finish. Andrew also collaborated with other teams to make sure everyone is aligning on the dependency components. Thank you Andrew for your great work in Power/Casual seats project. Andrew is one of the key engineers to make this project very smooth.
>
> --- Manager from role as an Individual Contributor
